Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're gonna be making it so that we automatically remember Which scene we last saved
in.
So if I had gone through to sandbox scene to like I have here and I was just hanging around in this
area then what happens is that the checkpoint that I went through that particular gate is remembered.
And if I go ahead and hit play again it loads me in to sandbox Scene 2 which was the last place I was
playing from with all the correct state and so on and so forth exactly how you'd expect a safe system
to work.
So let's dive in and see how we can achieve that.
So I want to talk a little bit about the bug that we saw at the end of the last lecture.
Now I've just cleared out my save file so there's no saved state at the moment I want to show you how
the bug is reproduced.
If I go through these gates and then subsequently come back into my first sandbox scene then what's
happened is we have saved in sandbox Scene 2 and because the EU idea of the player is the same in sandbox
1 and sandbox 2 then the state has been overwritten.
So if I go and start our player in Scene 1 He's in a really weird location because that's his location
from scene to now.
The way we're going to fix this is essentially to say hey what we need to do is load up.
Scene 2 because that is the last place we were.
That's the missing part to add chicks or puzzle of saving.
So what we're going to do is modify our saving system so that there is another method we can call here
it's going to be a public void load last seen like so and it's going to still take these string save
file like everywhere else.
And this is where we're going to do our saving and loading.
So what we're gonna do is we want to call this from our wrapper so the wrapper at the moment does a
load when you start.
But what we want to happen here is that instead of tries to get hold of the saving system and do a dot
load last seen.
So what this is going to do is from our default save file again it is going to try and find out what
was the last scene we were in when we saved and load that one up.
That's the idea.
Okay.
So let's give this a shot.
So we want to go over to our savings system and we want to somehow know what the last scene was to do
this.
We need to go to where we are capturing our state and somehow update our state dictionary to have that
information in.
So I'm gonna leave that as a little mini challenge to compose a video if you like.
If you're not entirely sure what I'm talking about then you can watch on.
Okay.
So I'm gonna add in a piece of state called the last scene build index as just a string in the dictionary
and I'm going to set this to an integer which I'm gonna take from the scene manager and for this I'm
going to have to include the using Unity engine dot scene management using statement.
And so the scene manager dots get gets active scene dot build index and that gives me the build index
of the current active scene.
So basically captures what's what scene we're in when we're trying to capture the state.
So this is the state we can use later on to try and restore in our load.
Last scene.
Now what are we going to want to do in this load last scene.
I'm gonna break it down into steps.
The first thing is we need to get the state.
The second thing is to restore or load the last scene and the third thing is to restore the state of
that scene as well.
Okay.
So in order to do this you can see that the loading the last scene is going to take time.
We know that loading a scene isn't a synchronous thing it's load a scene a sink.
So how can we do this.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to make this an I in numerator so that basically when we call load
lastly scene we have to do it as a CO routine and that means it can take time to load the scene and
then we can restore state afterwards.
So that's the way I'm going to do it and I'm going to just challenge you to fill out the steps one two
and three no change slide required.
Just get the state load the last scene from that building next that we've got and restore the state
pause video and have a go.
Okay.
So first of all getting the state is going to be quite simply this thing that we've got in save already
we're going to get the state as a state dictionary and loading the file from the Save File.
Then the second thing we're going to do is we are going to load up the last scene.
So we need to first of all get the build index which here is the last scene build index key in our state
dictionary.
So let's give that a go.
We're gonna get hold of that and save it into an int called the build index and then we can use that
variable to just do a load async.
So it's going to be seen manager dot load seen a sync with the build index which is going to be build
index and that's all we require.
And because this is an asynchronous operation and we want to wait until it is finished we can do a yield
return of this async operation.
Okay now what's it saying here.
Oh yes.
That I need to cast this to an integer to make sure that it is indeed something we can do and one optimization
I want to make here is just not to reload the scene if we're already in the correct scene.
So it's going to be an if then the build index is equal to the scene management manager dots again the
active scene get the active scene dots build index and that should basically say okay.
So if it is the current scene we don't need to reload.
So what I'm actually gonna say is that if it is not the current scene we do need to reload so we do
a yield return in this situation.
So in some situations we won't be reloading a scene.
So that's great.
Number two is complete.
And finally 3 we're going to try and restore the state.
So we've got already a thing for restoring state and this function here restore state and we can just
pass it in the state object that we have already loaded here at the beginning of the file and that should
restore the state in the new scene because the scene has finally loaded here as well.
So we've got this I enumerates giving me an error because it wants me to include the system Doc collections
which I have now done.
So that's gonna be able to load the last scene and if I go over to our saving wrapper you can see it's
going to be well it can call it but it's not actually doing it properly.
So what we could do is we could do a start co routine here.
But one thing you can also do which I think is quite neat is you can turn your start into an eye in
numerator and basically this means that it calls start as a CO routine and start so I can go ahead and
include again using System Doc collections.
So we've got this iron numerator start and it needs to yield return something is going to yield return
this iron numerator the load last seen Iron numerator and that's just going to run it basically.
So on start it's going to try and load the last seen so let's hop over to unity and see if this is working
now.
I'll go ahead and hit play then.
The first thing you will notice is that it is going to say that this key is not present in the dictionary.
So that is true because we haven't yet created a safe.
But it would also be true if we had created or had an empty save file.
Basically we've got an empty dictionary which is nothing there yet.
So what we're saying is this last scene building next we want to check first of all that exists in the
state.
So I gonna say if the build index sorry the state DOT contains key and it's going to contain the last
scene build index.
Then we could go ahead and do all of this.
We can go ahead and grab the build index and we can load up the scene.
Otherwise we're going to restore the state either way.
So this is getting a bit nested quite nested got contains key last scene builder.
Next time we get the building next and we do this.
But this moment in time I think is just about okay.
This level of indentation.
So let's check it out see if this works now whether we're protecting against this case go ahead and
hit play then sure enough it loads the current scene in a funky state so I'm going to delete the current
save file it should just load the current scene now so if at any point you want to get back to loading
the current scene rather than using the save files last scene you can always just delete the save file.
So if I go through the gates here and I'm over in this new world I'll go ahead and save somewhere in
the world and just close down and start playing again.
Then what we should see is instantly loads into the New World and restores my state as being at that
point which is exactly what we wanted it to do but one problem is if I hadn't done that save.
So what if I go through the gates for example to scene sandbox one at the top of sandbox 1 and don't
save I go ahead and exits and hit play this time.
Then what we're going to see is something very weird happening and that happened quite quickly but let
me break it down for you.
What happened is we loaded into sandbox sandbox said hey I noticed the building next is a different
one so load sandbox 2 and position the player in the last position.
The Sandbox 2 was in which if we go over sandbox to was right at the gates of Portal 1 so it was right
inside Portal 1 which meant then we teleported in to the new location which is a bit funky really and
probably not what we want to have happen.
So what I'm gonna do is instead in our portal whereas the scene management portal what's happening is
it is only saving when we exit a world.
What I want to happen is that it also saves when we've just entered a world so that that is the checkpoint
if you like.
We've left the world behind we saved all the state from the last world.
We've loaded up all the state in the New World which is happening down here.
We've updated our players location and then we want to save that as a snapshot to return to.
If we stop the game and once Karen plans.
That's really easy to do.
We just got take our saving wrap a save and do it after we have updated the players location.
But before we fade in so that means that we will be at the spawn point of that new portal.
So if we give that a go go ahead and hit play and we get this weird fading effect but it should have
just saved us here and I can see from the log messages that it has.
So now the second time if I go and just hit play it loads up in two seen one at our spawn point without
any fades or weirdness going on.
So it is still a little bit jarring you see a bit of scene 1 then scene 2 to loads.
That's what we're gonna fix in the next lecture but we have got a good starting point now where it loads
up the last scene.
The player has been in and the checkpoint thing is working correctly.
So if I go through in two sandbox to again just to show you I go ahead and hit play it doesn't even
do a reload this time just takes me straight to the place where he came in or if I go back through the
portal at the back to sandbox one at the beginning a sandbox 1 then this is also saved if I go ahead
and quit out of this he goes back to this point even though I was in sandbox 2 so all of that is seen
loading is happening to gas to the last place we were saved.
And again if you ever want to test it in the scene that you're currently in just need to go ahead and
delete this save file then so you can go ahead and hit play and you will be in your default location
of whatever scene you've currently got loaded.
Cool.
So to recap what we've done is we've been able to save our build index into the States and use that
state again when we're loading the scene to asynchronously load the scene and restore state C in the
next lecture where we'll be making that transition just a little bit smoother.